the text for the day, Daniel 1127,
the two kings will sit at one table speaking lies to each other.
And as long as there's been human kings,
while lies have been told to the populists,
the Greek philosopher Plato said this,
the rulers of the state may be allowed to lie for the good of the state.
And over the centuries, kings and rulers and diplomats
have perfected their skills in diplomacy and deception.
Now the scriptures give us an example of a bold face lie by a diplomat.
And if we turn to Isaiah 36 and verses 16 and 17,
the one speaking here is the Rapshika.
He was the cut bear of King Sinac, Sinac grip.
And here's what he says, 16 speaking to God's people,
do not listen to Hezekiah,
for this is what the king of Assyria says.
Make peace with me and surrender,
and each of you will lead from his own vine and from his own fig tree
and will drink the water of his own sister.
Until I come and take you to a land like your own land,
a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
He was promising peace and security, wasn't he?
But you see, what they had to do first was surrender to the king
in order to get this peace and security this being promised.
But the thing is, Jehovah had promised peace and security
to his people long before this.
Effectively, what the Assyrian was doing was offering peace
and security apart from Jehovah God.
Obviously, you know the way the Assyrians handled their captives.
They were vicious and truly this was an empty promise coming
from the table of liars.
It's a note that liars will often shroud our cover their lie in truths.
And a brief math fact can illustrate that we've talked about this recently.
You recall that anything multiplied by zero ends up in zero, right?
No matter how many numbers are multiplied,
if there's a zero that's multiplied in that equation,
it's going to end up in zero.
The answer is always a zero.
The tactic that Satan uses is to insert something valueless
or false in otherwise true statements.
See, Satan is the zero.
He's a giant zero.
Anything that he is combined with will be valueless, will be a zero.
So look for the zero in any equation of statements
that cancels out all the other truths.
A note how this was the case with the Israelites.
We'll go back to that account in Isaiah 36.
This time we'll read verses 18 and 19.
He said, Do not let Hezekiah mislead you by saying,
Jehovah will rescue us.
Have any of the gods of the nations rescued their land out of the hand of King Assyria?
Where are the gods of Hema and Arpad?
And where are the gods of Sepharveim?
And have they rescued Samaria out of my hand?
Did you note the lie was nestled in some truths?
See, look in verse 18.
It was true, the gods of other nations had failed to save their people.
In verse 19 is true, Hema, then Arpad had been conquered.
But the Israelites were not tricked by this.
Because these statements, they understood earlier Isaiah in Isaiah 10 verse 9
had prophesied that the Assyrian king would boast about these very cities.
History confirms that Carcomish, Arpad and Damascus all had been conquered after Isaiah made these prophecies
and before the Rapshaka presented these in his promise.
In this case, Jehovah help the faithful ones to see the lie that was inserted in otherwise true statements.
Now let's go back to our scripture in Daniel chapter 11.
It is a fascinating chapter verses 27 and 28 is describing the time leading up to World War I.
And there it says that the king of the north and the king of the south will sit at a table speaking lies.
And that's exactly what happened.
In the late 1800s, Germany, the king of the north and Britain, the king of the south, told each other that they wanted peace.
They lied to each other and they lied to the people that were following them.
One German general boasted, in two weeks, we shall defeat France.
What really happened?
Well, the lies of both of these kings resulted in massive destruction and millions of death in World War I and World War II later.
But the nations today are doing the very same thing. They're lying to one another and they're lying to their citizens.
And in the near future, the world populace will be told a big lie from the table of the lies just like the Rapshaka did that we read earlier.
What is the lie and how can we protect ourselves?
Well, we go to the first Thessalonians, the Apostle Paul talked about it, chapter 5 and verse 3.
Whenever it is that they are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction is to be instantly upon them.
Now, the new English Bible renders this verse, while they are talking of peace and security, all at once calamity is upon them.
So when the attention of the humans is on the big lie, the hope for peace and security destruction is going to strike them when they lease expected.
Now, how can we protect ourselves as the question?
Go down to verse 8.
The Apostle Paul says, but as for us who belong to the day, let us keep our senses and put our breastplate of faith and love and hope of salvation as a helmet.
So two things he recommends, the breastplate of faith and love, it relates to our figurative heart.
See, combining faith and God's promises, understanding the promises and having a deep love for him is going to protect our spiritual heart.
It is going to be a spiritual breastplate. It will be of the highest quality.
And then the hope of salvation as our helmet, it is going to protect our mind.
So we are not swayed one way or another by the old system and the lies of the system will stay spiritually awake.
Now, in our day, there is another group of men that are sitting at one table, our governing body.
They never lie or deceive us. We can have absolute trust in the governing body.
They meet all the criteria that Jesus gave us to identify them by.
We know exactly who Jesus is using to protect his people from the lies. We just must stay alert.
Done review, how can we identify a lie? Look for the zero. Any component in a statement or teaching that cancels out a Bible truth.
How can we avoid being caught up in the cry of peace and security?
What Jehovah has already promised peace and security and has clearly forewarned us that a false cry will soon be coming.
And what table can we trust? The table surrounded by our future kings, the governing body.